1.Write a blog on Difference between HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2

Title: A Tale of Two Protocols: HTTP/1.1 vs. HTTP/2

Introduction:
The World Wide Web has come a long way since its inception, 
and the protocols governing its functioning have evolved to keep pace with the demands of modern web applications.
Two of the most prominent HTTP protocols in use today are HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2. 
In this blog, we'll explore the key differences between these two protocols and understand how HTTP/2 has significantly
improved the web's performance and efficiency.

HTTP/1.1: The Old Reliable
HTTP/1.1, introduced in 1999, has been the backbone of the web for over two decades. 
While it has served us well, the growth of the internet and the increasing complexity of web applications have exposed its limitations.

1.Resource Loading: In HTTP/1.1, each resource (e.g., HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images) is fetched sequentially. 
  This means that if a browser requests multiple resources, 
  it has to wait for each response before requesting the next one, leading to a phenomenon known as the "head-of-line blocking."

2.Header Overhead: HTTP/1.1 sends headers with each request and response.
  This redundancy can lead to significant overhead, especially when requesting multiple resources from the same server.

3.No Built-in Compression: HTTP/1.1 lacks built-in support for data compression. 
  While gzip or deflate compression can be used, they are not always implemented by servers or supported by clients.

HTTP/2: A Modern Marvel
Recognizing the need for a more efficient protocol, the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) introduced HTTP/2 in 2015. 
HTTP/2 builds upon the foundation of HTTP/1.1 but brings several groundbreaking improvements.

1.Multiplexing: HTTP/2 allows multiple requests and responses to be multiplexed over a single connection. 
  This eliminates the head-of-line blocking issue, enabling resources to load in parallel, greatly improving page load times.

2.Header Compression: HTTP/2 uses header compression, reducing the overhead associated with headers. 
The HPACK algorithm efficiently compresses headers, resulting in smaller packet sizes and faster data transmission.

3.Server Push: One of the most significant features of HTTP/2 is server push. 
  This allows the server to proactively send resources to the client before they are explicitly requested. 
  For example, if a server knows that a page requires certain CSS and JavaScript files, 
  it can push those resources to the client without waiting for the client to request them, further improving performance.

4.Binary Protocol: HTTP/2 uses a binary protocol instead of plain text, 
  which makes it more efficient for both parsing and transmission.

5.Stream Prioritization: HTTP/2 allows for prioritization of streams, 
ensuring that critical resources are loaded first, improving the user experience.

Conclusion:
HTTP/2 is a significant improvement over its predecessor, 
HTTP/1.1. Its focus on reducing latency, improving efficiency, 
and enhancing performance has made it the preferred choice for modern web applications. However, 
it's worth noting that while HTTP/2 is widely adopted, not all web servers and clients support it. 
Developers should ensure that their infrastructure is compatible with HTTP/2 to fully harness its benefits.

In summary, the transition from HTTP/1.1 to HTTP/2 represents a leap forward in web performance and efficiency,
addressing many of the shortcomings of the previous protocol. As the web continues to evolve, 
protocols like HTTP/2 play a crucial role in ensuring that users enjoy faster and more responsive web experiences.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2.Write a blog about objects and its internal representation in Javascript

    Title: Objects and Their Internal Representation in JavaScript

Introduction:
JavaScript, as one of the most popular programming languages for web development, 
relies heavily on objects. Objects are at the core of JavaScript's flexible and dynamic nature.
In this blog post, we'll delve into the concept of objects in JavaScript and explore their internal representation, 
shedding light on how they work under the hood.

Understanding JavaScript Objects:
In JavaScript, objects are composite data types that can hold a collection of key-value pairs, 
where the keys are strings (or Symbols) and the values can be of various data types, including other objects. 
Objects serve as a fundamental building block for structuring and organizing data in JavaScript applications.
// creating a simple objects....

let person ={
    name: 'Murali',
    age:28,
    isDeveloper:true
};
Objects can be used to represent real-world entities, such as users, products, 
or any data structure that requires organization and encapsulation.

Internal Representation of Objects:
JavaScript engines, like V8 (used in Chrome) or SpiderMonkey (used in Firefox), 
manage objects using a variety of internal data structures. 
Understanding these internal representations can provide insight into how JavaScript objects work efficiently.

1.Properties and Prototypes:

  Each object in JavaScript has a set of properties. These properties are stored in a property map, 
  which is essentially a hash table where keys are property names, and values are property attributes.
  Objects in JavaScript can have prototypes. 
  A prototype is essentially another object that is used as a fallback source for property lookups 
  if the property is not found on the object itself. This mechanism enables inheritance and property delegation.

2.Hidden Classes and Shape Changes:

  JavaScript engines often use hidden classes or shapes to optimize property access. 
  When an object is created, the engine assigns it a hidden class or shape. This class defines the object's layout in memory,
  optimizing property access.
  When you add or remove properties from an object, its hidden class may change, potentially causing performance 
  penalties due to "shape changes."

2.Memory Management:

  Objects in JavaScript are allocated memory dynamically and managed by the garbage collector. When an object is no longer reachable, 
  the garbage collector reclaims its memory.
  Cyclic references (references between objects forming a loop) can lead to memory leaks if not managed properly.

3.Primitive vs. Reference:

  JavaScript differentiates between primitive values (like strings, numbers, booleans) and reference values (like objects and functions). 
  Primitive values are stored directly in variables, while reference values are stored as references to memory locations.
Conclusion:
  JavaScript objects are a fundamental part of the language, offering a versatile way to structure and manage data. 
  Understanding the internal representation of objects can help developers write more efficient and performant code. 
  It also highlights the importance of using objects wisely, considering memory management, property access patterns, 
  and the potential impact on an application's performance. By mastering objects in JavaScript, developers can leverage 
  this powerful feature to create robust and flexible web applications.
